# Diabetic-Retinopathy
One of the main reason of sight impairment around the globe is diabetic retinopathy (DR) which was once thought to be a medical illness caused by diabetes that has no symptoms early diagnosis and detection can actually lesion the likelihood of severe vision loss and increase the effectiveness of treatment the major application of fundus imaging a non-surgical diagnosis technique is to examine diabetic retinopathy. Overall, it takes a long time to manually filter retinal pictures for micro lesions in the early stages of DR, and the process is not quick enough to yield the desired results. In the meantime, technological innovation occurred. Using fundus images, this study suggests a collectionof deep convolutional neural network (CNN) models for precisely detecting and grading DR.
Fundus data image classification and preprocessing, segmentation using UNet++, and classification using CNN/SVM are all used in our suggested methodology. Now the only DR treatments available are meant to block or delay vision loss, regular scanning using highly effective computer-based technologies is critical to identifying symptoms at an early stage.  Our recent work has developed entirely automatic diagnosis methods that outperform manual ones in terms of preventing misdiagnosis and saving time, money, and effort. The suggested system localizes the affected lesions on the retinal surface and divides DR images into five stages: no-DR, mild, moderate, severe, and proliferative DR.
